This filterable guide to common questions about COVID-19 testing and safety measures will help you navigate a safe semester on campus. Filter by audience and/or topic, or use the search function.

If you don’t see the answer to your question here, check the Testing page. View a list of Housing-related FAQs. If you still have questions, contact covidresponse@vc.wisc.edu.

Make sure your current local address is up to date in MyUW Student Center. For any other reasons you feel you should be exempted from testing, please fill out the COVID-19 Testing Exemption Form. This form is intended for students who are seeking an exemption or alternative to the University’s COVID-19 testing requirement for a reason unrelated to an underlying disability or medical reason.

Examples of situations that could qualify for an exemption: you enrolled in an in-person or hybrid class but the instructor has switched it to entirely online; you are still enrolled in an in-person or hybrid class but have been given permission from the instructor not to be on campus; your course of instruction requires you to be on campus only on rare occasions; your current local address on file with the university suggests you live in the Madison area, even if that’s no longer the case.

If you are being vaccinated off campus, wait until you have received either the single dose of a one-dose vaccine or both shots of a two-dose vaccine. Then take these steps to upload your records:

Log into MyUHS using your NetID and password.
Underneath the title “Welcome to UW–Madison University Health Services” you will see the following: “Submit outside records of COVID-19 Vaccination HERE.” Click or tap on the word “HERE.”
You will then be on the “Medical Clearances” page. Look for “COVID vaccine” under the heading “Items required for clearance.” Click or tap the green button that says “Update.”
Under “COVID-19 Immunization Record Upload” you will be prompted to upload a copy of your immunization record. This can be an image file (PNG, JPG, JPEG) or a PDF. Attempting to upload other kinds of files will result in an error message. Accepted records include:
The official Centers for Disease Control and Prevention vaccination card you receive at your vaccine site. It must contain two patient identifiers, such as name and date of birth; vaccine lot number; vaccine name (for example, Moderna, Pfizer or Janssen/Johnson & Johnson); date of vaccination (there should be two dates for Moderna and Pfizer); clinic name (must be an official clinic name; if the clinic was a chain pharmacy, please include the store number). The example below shows these fields.

Your Wisconsin Immunization Registry vaccination record
A state vaccination record from outside Wisconsin
For vaccination outside the U.S., the most complete record you have available. UHS will recognize vaccines maintained on the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing.
You will also need to enter the date of your one-dose vaccine and the vaccine manufacturer, or the dates of your two-dose vaccine and vaccine manufacturer in the section labeled “Doses of COVID-19 Vaccine.”
Click or tap “Done” when you are finished.
Allow up to five business days for the record to be reflected in your MyUHS account. While the record is under review your Medical Clearance information will indicate “awaiting review.” Once it is approved, this field will say “satisfied.” Your Badger Badge will turn green once it has been two weeks since your final dose and your record has been approved.

If you received your vaccination in Wisconsin, and cannot find the record in WIR, contact the WIR Help Desk at 608-266-9691 or email DHSWIRHelp@dhs.wisconsin.gov.

Once you complete your first test, you will be prompted to test twice weekly (every 72 hours) thereafter.

You will need to continue to test twice weekly (every 72 hours) throughout the semester to remain in compliance with campus requirements.

No. There is no cost to be tested.

Fully vaccinated individuals at UW–Madison will be exempted from routine COVID-19 testing. In order for the exemption to apply,

You must be at least 2 weeks past the date you received your second vaccine dose, or 2 weeks past the date you received a single-dose vaccine. The exemption will take effect 15  days from that date.
UHS must have a record of your vaccination. If you were vaccinated by UHS, they have your record. If you were not vaccinated by UHS, follow the instructions to upload your record in MyUHS. It may take up to 5 business days for your record to be reflected in MyUHS.
You will receive a message in the Safer Badgers app that says your Badger Badge will remain green without further testing, and the word exempt will appear under your picture in the badge. If your badge is not green at that time, you will need one more test to turn it green. Until you receive this message, you will need to continue testing in order to remain compliant.
After receiving the exemption, you are still required to show your Badger Badge at building entrances, wear a face covering, and practice physical distancing. If you develop COVID-19 symptoms, isolate yourself from others and get tested as soon as possible. A positive test will turn your badge red.

Please contact the UW–Madison COVID-19 Assistance Line at 608-262-7777.

If you test positive for COVID-19 you should isolate yourself immediately so you don’t spread the virus that causes it to others. If you have been exposed to COVID-19 due to close contact with someone infected with the virus, you should quarantine yourself immediately. You could become positive for the virus for up to 14 days after exposure.

If you test positive for COVID-19 you should isolate yourself immediately so you don’t spread the virus to others.

If you have been exposed to COVID-19, you should quarantine yourself immediately. You could become positive for the virus for up to 14 days after exposure.

According to CDC guidelines, if you are fully vaccinated, which means it has been at least 2 weeks since you received a single-dose vaccine or at least two weeks since your second shot of a two-dose vaccine, you are not required to quarantine following an exposure to someone with COVID-19. However, fully vaccinated people should continue to watch for symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself if they develop, and seek a COVID-19 test.

The testing process should take a few minutes. Results will be available within 24 hours. They will be provided to you on the Safer Badgers app and via the myUHS portal.

If you’re remaining in the Madison area, yes. If you sign up for a first dose from a vaccine provider, they will guarantee your second dose. You should schedule your second dose appointment either when you make your appointment for your first dose or while you are there for your first dose appointment. If you are unsure, check with the vaccine provider.

If you’re traveling away from Madison before your second dose, we encourage you to get your first dose on campus now and obtain a second dose once you reach your new location. Visit VaccineFinder.org to find vaccine providers nationwide.

Once you complete your first test, you will be prompted to test twice weekly (every 72 hours) thereafter.
You will need to continue to test twice weekly (every 72 hours) throughout the semester to remain in compliance with campus requirements.
For undergraduates living outside these zip codes
Beginning Jan. 25 you will need to have tested negative within the previous four days (96 hours) any time you come to campus.  (Keep in mind that it can take up to 24 hours to get a test result.)
Once you complete your first test, you need to take additional tests to ensure that you always have a negative test recorded within four days of your upcoming visit.
We encourage you to opt into a regular twice weekly testing program, to ensure you’ll always be able to visit campus should the need arise on short notice.
Certain student employees will be asked to test more often, given their role on campus. These employees will be notified by their supervisors of their testing expectations.

Beginning Jan. 25, any time you come to campus, you will need to have tested negative within the previous 8 days (192 hours). Before you come to campus for the first time this spring, it’s important to plan ahead to be sure you have a negative test within this time period.

Beginning Jan. 25, any time you come to campus, you will need to have tested negative within the previous 8 days (192 hours). Before you come to campus for the first time this spring, it’s important to plan ahead to be sure you have a negative test within this time period.

UW–Madison takes care to provide robust controls to safeguard personal privacy.

To protect the privacy of data, the Safer Badgers app uses a student or staff member’s username/password and multi-factor authentication. Further, inside the Safer Badgers app, all data in the app is encrypted.

The privacy of medical information is protected by the HIPAA Privacy Rule, the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), Wisconsin’s state laws about medical records privacy, and the confidentiality requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).

Certain sharing of your medical information is consistent with your consent as outlined in the app’s privacy policy and terms of use, and where specifically allowed by the applicable rules and regulations to help prevent the further spread of COVID-19.

No, these requirements only apply to the main Madison campus, However, any UW–Madison employee or student who visits campus, regardless of the reason for their visit, must be in compliance. This includes employees who do not work on the main Madison campus but visit it. (The one exception is couriers who are dropping off samples at the State Lab of Hygiene.)

In addition, units that are located off campus and in the Madison area may choose to implement the campus testing requirements and limit access to their facilities based on compliance with these requirements.

No, the test for COVID-19 looks for several signatures of the virus that are not present in the vaccine.

Yes. Testing is a paid work activity and is intended to be conducted during normal work hours when practical.

Testing begins as early as 6:30 a.m. at some sites and continues until as late as 7:30 p.m.at some sites – view site hours and locations.

If you have questions about how to test during normal work time, please speak with your supervisor.

If you have been notified of an exposure through the Safer Badgers app, the app will give you instructions on how to proceed. You will be instructed to get a UW–Madison COVID-19 test. Your Badger Badge and building access will not change. If you have additional questions, you may contact the UW–Madison COVID-19 Assistance Line at 608-262-7777.

The policy regarding facial coverings is the same for spring semester as it was for fall. Facial coverings are required:

In all indoor public spaces except students in their assigned residence hall rooms and employees when alone in a private, unshared office or lab;
While riding a campus bus or when two or more people are present in a university vehicle;
Outside when not able to physically distance or when traveling in a group of two or more individuals

If you received any of these results, you will need to get another test. Your Badger Badge will not update until you receive a valid test result.

Invalid results typically occur when a sample is submitted but cannot be adequately tested.

If your test was rejected, it may be because your saliva sample was contaminated, discolored, or you provided too much or too little liquid saliva.

Contamination can occur for a number of reasons – most commonly due to eating or drinking, flossing or brushing your teeth, using mouthwash, chewing gum, or smoking within 60 minutes of your test. We encourage you to rinse your mouth thoroughly with water at least 60 minutes before your test and then refrain from any of these activities before your test.

A couple of hours before your saliva test, drink water to ensure you are well-hydrated when you arrive for your test. (Again, do not drink anything in the one hour before your test.)

You will be asked to provide between 1 and 1.5 milliliters of saliva, following the instructions provided to you at the test site.

For undergraduate students, on and off campus: Yes, the Safer Badgers app will contain language outlining when you need to be tested and when you need to have a negative test result on file. (Please allow 24 hours to receive a test result.)

Undergraduates outside certain city of Madison zip codes (see map below) only need to test if they are physically coming to campus.

Undergraduates can use these sample testing schedules to find suggested options for when to test.

For graduate and professional students (including clinical); faculty/staff: Yes, the app will contain language outlining when you need to have a negative test result on file. (Please allow 24 hours to receive a test result.)

In order to run a COVID-19 test on your saliva sample, you will need to contribute about 1 milliliter of drool. It is best to arrive for your test well-hydrated, though remember you should not eat or drink, smoke, brush or floss your teeth, chew gum, or wear lipstick or chapstick in the hour before your test or your test might come back “rejected.”

Try building up saliva on your walk or drive to your test, and as you check in. It also helps to think about foods you like to eat while you are submitting your saliva sample. Think about sour foods like lemons.
Slide the tip of your tongue along your gums behind your teeth to stimulate your salivary glands and deposit this saliva in the funnel.
Avoid swishing saliva in your mouth or pulling saliva from the back of your mouth.
Be careful not to overfill the tube, too. If this happens, it’s best to ask a member of the test site staff to start again with a new tube.

Students and employees who have an underlying medical condition or disability that make participating in the campus COVID-19 spring testing challenging may be eligible for an accommodation, including the ability to take a different kind of test. Requests unrelated to a disability or medical contraindication may be considered but exemptions should not be expected.

Student Accommodations
Students with a medical condition or disability needing an accommodation to participate in the campus-wide COVID-19 testing program should request an accommodation through the McBurney Disability Resource Center. Students who have previously engaged with the McBurney Disability Resource Center should contact their Access Consultant to request an accommodation related to the testing program.

It is an expectation that students living on-campus and those living off-campus in Madison will participate in the spring testing program. Accommodation requests unrelated to a disability or medical condition will rarely be granted due to public health goals; however, students with non-medical concerns should complete a COVID-19 Testing Exemption form. While all requests will be considered, adjustments will not be granted based on the inconvenience of participation in weekly testing.

Employee Accommodations
Employees who need an accommodation to participate in the testing requirements due to a disability or underlying medical condition should contact their Divisional Disability Representative (DDR) to request an accommodation.

Requests unrelated to a disability or medical condition will rarely be granted due to public health goals; however, employees with non-medical concerns may submit requests to their divisional human resources representative. While all requests will be considered, no adjustments will be granted based on the inconvenience of participation in the testing program.

At this time, unless you are a residence hall student or have a medical condition that would interfere with saliva-based testing, you will need to seek on-campus saliva testing.

No. The Badger Badge does not reveal your health status (such as whether you have tested positive for COVID-19). It simply indicates whether you have access to campus buildings.

Having a Badger Badge indicating “building access denied” (with a red X) does not mean you have tested positive for COVID-19. A badge can indicate “building access denied” for several reasons: being a first-time user of the app, failure to record a negative test in the time period required, getting a positive test, being in isolation/quarantine, or self-reporting symptoms.

The red and green colors used to indicate “building access denied” or “building access granted” on the Badger Badge screen are different from the red/yellow/green “status” colors used in other parts of the app. A red status means the user has tested positive for COVID-19. App users do not need to show their status to anyone, only their badge.

Graduate assistants (TAs, PAs, and RAs) receive a sick leave allocation depending on the length of their appointment that they may use if they test positive and are unable to telework. Certain graduate assistant appointments also earn paid vacation and would be able to elect to use that leave for these absences. (See Graduate Assistantship Policies and Procedures – Leave Benefits.)

The Safer Badgers app does not allow us to send you a confirmation that you’ve been tested. Rest assured that this has no effect on your test results. As long as you’ve had your QR code scanned, you will receive your results.

The Safer Badgers app will provide you with basic information about the results of campus testing.

To find more details, log into your MyUHS account and find “UHS Health Record” on the left hand side of the web page, or in the drop-down menu on mobile.

Navigate to “Laboratory results” where you’ll find your test history and a full interpretation of the results.

Or, on the MyUHS homepage, after logging in, scroll down to “View lab results” to find a list of your COVID-19 test results and click on the result to get more information.

Beginning April 5, everyone age 16 and older who lives, works or studies in Wisconsin is eligible for COVID-19 vaccination.

Due to limited supplies of vaccine, appointment options on campus remain limited. Students should continue to check the MyUHS portal for availability: go.wisc.edu/myuhs.

UW–Madison students and employees are encouraged to seek vaccine appointments on and off campus. The Wisconsin Department of Health Services offers a registry to assist with off-campus appointments: https://vaccinate.wi.gov/en-US/. Once you register, DHS will send an email as off-campus appointment options become available. You may also look for appointments at area pharmacies and other community sites offering vaccines: https://www.dhs.wisconsin.gov/covid-19/vaccine-get.htm.

Campus added Shield’s saliva-based COVID-19 testing in order to increase our testing capacity. Our nasal swab capacity is about 12,000 tests per week. Our saliva-based testing adds up to 70,000 tests per week. We will continue to perform nasal swab tests in addition to saliva tests, predominantly for students living in our residence halls. Using both approaches, we are able to test many more people much more frequently. Both tests are highly accurate PCR-based tests, the gold standard for COVID-19 diagnosis.

Those who are authorized to check another person’s badge include:

Badger Wellness Ambassadors (BWAs), who are UW-Madison employees, will be stationed at entrances of high activity level buildings that do not normally control access. They will be wearing yellow/green vests to identify their role. These buildings were determined using a variety of data sets to estimate in-person density and traffic patterns. BWAs may be stationed at facilities continually or on an intermittent basis.
Authorized staff who have responsibility for monitoring entrances in facilities like University Libraries, University Housing Dining Centers, Recreation and Wellbeing facilities, and office settings.
An individual hired or designated to monitor access to a facility, or a unit within a facility, at the expense of the school, college, division, or research center. These individuals are to be clearly identified as having this assigned responsibility.
University employees with an authorized business responsibility including instructors in relation to students they are teaching in person, supervisors in relation to their direct employees, and lab managers in relation to personnel in research settings. Although not required, a best practice to create an atmosphere of trust is for the person asking to see a badge to proactively show theirs.

This is considered an absence and regular academic policies and practices apply. Your course syllabus explains how absences are addressed. In addition to the possible academic penalties for being absent from class, failure to complete your required COVID-19 testing could also result in action through the student discipline process.

While students are not required to disclose to their instructors if they test positive for COVID-19, students are encouraged to communicate with their instructors if they need flexibility with assignments or coursework. Supporting students’ academic progress and success continues to be a top priority. Instructors will maintain high academic standards and expectations of all students – both for in-person and remote courses – while communicating additional flexibilities for students who may become ill or quarantined. These expectations and flexibilities will be outlined in course syllabi at the start of the semester.

We recognize these new measures require additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible.

If the university learns that you have not fulfilled these testing expectations, we will provide reminders; however, in rare cases, additional measures may be needed to ensure compliance.

Our progressive approach first employs administrative consequences — early warnings that will have no lasting impact on a student’s record. Our response builds only if more tests are missed or a student displays a pattern of missing tests.

COVID-19 Public Health Concern Reporting
To protect the health and safety of members of the university community, the University of Wisconsin-Madison has determined everyone on campus will be required to wear face coverings in all indoor public spaces, including classrooms, and outside when physical distancing is not possible. In addition, students living off campus may be held responsible for behavior which violates public health directives.

For Spring 2021, the university has adopted new measures to enhance the safety of the campus community. The two main components of this program are expanded testing protocols and a new app, Safer Badgers. Students, faculty and staff will be required to use the app to manage and track test results, and to access campus facilities and services.

Please use this form to submit a complaint alleging a violation of the above mentioned requirements.

No. While we encourage you to be in compliance with Badger Badge requirements, you will not be turned away from a vaccine appointment if your badge is not indicating “building access granted” (with a green checkmark).

If you have tested positive for COVID-19, are quarantining due to a possible exposure or are having symptoms, you should reschedule your vaccine appointment.

University Health Services is now offering COVID-19 vaccine appointments to all employees at UW–Madison. This includes in-person and remote employees and student employees.

To search for and schedule appointments at UHS, visit go.wisc.edu/myuhscovidvax. While COVID-19 vaccine supplies remain limited, so too do appointments at UHS. This week, UHS will receive just 800 first doses of Moderna.

However, all eligible members of the UW community who are interested in vaccination should also seek vaccination off campus and can register with the Wisconsin Department of Health Services to find appointments in the community. Find the registry online. DHS will email registrants with appointment options.

Employees qualify for vaccination under the state’s definition of faculty and staff with direct student contact or under previous eligibility criteria. Because vaccinators across the state have variable levels of vaccine supply each week, eligible UW–Madison employees and students are encouraged to seek vaccine both on and off campus.

Find more information online about vaccinations off campus, including at area pharmacies.

Undergraduates who live off-campus and plan on traveling away from Madison for more than 3 days and will be unable to meet their testing requirements must complete this temporary travel exemption form. In addition, students who miss a COVID test due to an emergency such as an illness should also fill out the exemption form as soon as possible.

This exemption will temporarily excuse you from any sanctions associated with not being in compliance with the testing policy during this time.

Your Badger Badge will be red and your access to campus buildings will be denied until you have a negative test on file. When you return to Madison, please complete a COVID-19 test as soon as possible.

UW–Madison employees who have a travel exemption or need to travel are encouraged to monitor for symptoms upon return. If you have a known exposure to COVID-19, you should self-quarantine and test on interval during the quarantine. Also, as part of the Safer Badgers program, you should download the Safer Badgers app and will need to test negative at an on campus testing location within the previous 8 days (192) hours before coming to campus to ensure your Badger Badge will be in the “building access granted” status.

No. A new employee will not be required to have their Badger Badge indicating “building access granted” on their first day of employment. Instead, they will be required to get tested as soon as possible within their first day.

If a new employee needs to access campus buildings on their first day, they should be treated as a visitor and escorted by a supervisor or supervisor delegate (e.g., a trainer). If the employee does not need to be onsite on their first day, they have the same testing expectations as a current employee needing to come to campus (they must have a negative test on file within the previous 8 days and meet other public health requirements).

For the purpose of this policy, a “new employee” is someone hired into a position on campus who does not currently have an active appointment in any unit of the university. An employee moving from one unit to another within UW–Madison is not considered a new employee and will be expected to be in compliance with employee building access requirements throughout their transition between units.

Badger Wellness Ambassadors will be able to check your Badger Badge online by using your NetID (they will not be able to see any of your personal health information—including test results—or the reason your badge may be indicating “building access denied”).

You will be required to show a photo ID. Please allow more time for this process because it involves additional action beyond just a quick visual check of your badge.

In this limited circumstance, hourly employees who work on-site receive 2 hours in paid status to test on campus during their non-working hours, subject to the following:

The employee must be tested at least 24 hours prior to their return to the workplace to ensure that test results are complete and that the employee’s Badger Badge status is “building access granted.”
This paid time must be pre-approved by, and coordinated with, the employee’s supervisor.
If an employee tests during non-working hours and does not have pre-approval to do so, the employee will be paid only for the time they are at the testing site (e.g., if the testing process takes 30 minutes, the employee will be paid only for those 30 minutes of work time).
If an employee is not in compliance upon their return to the workplace and is denied building access, they must notify their supervisor that they cannot work in-person because they do not have building access. Their supervisor will help them to determine whether it is possible for them to work remotely or to change their shift to allow additional time to be tested and obtain building access.

If working remotely or changing their shift is not possible, they may request and utilize earned paid leave bank time or leave without pay (if they do not have earned paid leave bank time) until they are able to obtain building access.

Yes, you will be allowed access as needed during the emergency.Employees of UW – Madison will be asked to test for COVID-19 at a UW – Madison testing center as soon as the immediate work is complete and before leaving campus.Employees should not return to campus until receiving a negative COVID-19 test result in their Safer Badgers app and the building access granted green checkmark on their Badger Badge screen.

If you are able to log in to the Safer Badgers app using your UW-Madison NetID and password, then you are eligible for Safer Badgers COVID-19 testing and will be able to use your Badger Badge to access campus facilities. If you can access the app and have a business need to come to campus, you should follow the testing and building access requirements.

If you are not able to log in and have a business purpose for coming to campus, you have two options:

Follow the policy for campus visitors – Testing is not required. However, during your visit you must be escorted by the person with whom you have business (or a designee).
Request to be added to the list of people eligible to test on campus – The request should go to the director of the unit that awarded the emeritus status. If the director determines the emeritus faculty/staff member has a business need to come to campus regularly, the unit director should send a message to the Provost@provost.wisc.edu account with the unit name and the name and NetID of the individual for whom they are requesting inclusion in the testing program and access to the Safer Badgers app.

If you believe you have had close contact with someone with COVID-19—usually defined as being within 6 feet for 15 minutes or longer with someone infected with the virus—but have not yet heard from a contact tracer, you should plan to limit your interactions with other people. Log on to your MyUHS account and navigate to “Messages” to see if you have a secure message related to this contact. If you do not, contact University Health Services at 608-265-5600 for additional information and further instructions. If you receive an exposure notification through the Safer Badgers app, you will be provided with instructions for next steps.If you develop symptoms, please isolate yourself immediately and seek a COVID-19 test. You may get tested at an on-campus test site, or students can contact UHS and employees may seek testing through their health provider or testing in their community.

A green symbol (short wait time) means your wait time should be 15 minutes or less.
A yellow symbol (medium wait time) means a bit of a wait and your wait time is estimated to take 15 to 30 minutes.
A red symbol (long wait time) means you should expect to wait 30 minutes or longer to get tested at that site.
A grey symbol indicates the site is not open. This symbol will appear when the site is closed during the day.
Wait times will be refreshed frequently by staff at each test site

No. You do not need a green Badger Badge screen to enter a building for the purpose of taking a COVID-19 test.

No. You do not need a green Badger Badge screen to seek medical care at University Health Services.

Campus can only accept off-campus positive results for the purposes of Safer Badgers badge access because every off-campus test result needs to be verified. Verification is a complex process that requires careful management. Campus has the capacity to manage this process for positive tests, which are limited in number and remain relevant for 90 days, but not for a large volume of negative tests, which would require updating either once or twice a week, depending on the testing requirements to which an individual is subject.

If you have been exposed to COVID-19, you should quarantine yourself immediately.

The UHS website explains how long to quarantine based on your specific circumstances:

Students in residence halls
Employees and students living off campus

If you have symptoms of COVID-19, you should not go to school or work; only come to campus to get tested. If you have symptoms of a non-COVID illness, you may test on your regular schedule. If you miss your testing window, your badge will become “building access denied” (with a red “x”). Get tested as soon as possible.

Most employees will be able to return to work within 11-14 days of exposure. You may return to work provided:

You do not test positive or develop symptoms of COVID-19
You have obtained a negative test result on day 10 or later of quarantine and your Badger Badge indicates “building access granted.”
See the University Health Services website for more information: https://www.uhs.wisc.edu/medical/uw-quarantine/

Most people will need to isolate for 10 days, though some will need to isolate longer. Unless you have received different instructions from a medical provider or public health official, you can return to work once you meet the following conditions:

It’s been at least 10 days since your positive test; and
you’ve been free of fever for 24 hours without taking fever-reducing medication; and
your other symptoms are improving
Your Badger Badge will remain red/building access denied for 10 days of isolation and will turn green/building access granted on day 11. You will be excused from campus testing and your badge will remain green for 90 days from the date of the positive test.

Please continue to follow the instructions provided to you by your health provider. You may also find more information in your MyUHS account.

See the University Health Services website for more information about quarantine and isolation.

Refer to this campus workplace safety policy.

You should not be on campus with symptoms of COVID-19 except to get a COVID-19 test.

If you test negative for COVID-19, you may follow standard illness protocols for returning to work.

Example: The employee may return if they have been fever-free for 24-hours without fever reducing medication; if it has been two days since their last episode of vomiting or diarrhea; if they have been on antibiotic for at least 24 hours if prescribed; or as approved to work by a doctor.

Most employees will be able to return to work within 11-14 days of exposure.

You may return to work provided:

You do not test positive or develop symptoms of COVID-19
You have obtained a negative test result on day 10 or later of quarantine and your Badger Badge indicates “building access granted.”
See the University Health Services website for more information about quarantine and isolation.

While 14 days is the safest option for minimizing the spread of COVID-19 to others, the CDC updated its guidance in late 2020 to allow for shorter quarantines under some circumstances, including reducing the burden on individuals. The Wisconsin Department of Health Services also allows for a reduced quarantine period.

UW–Madison’s modified approach adds a further risk reduction step relative to CDC’s updated guidance by requiring a test on or after the 10th day of quarantine. The CDC reports that the median post-quarantine transmission risk posed by an individual who tests negative after 10 days of quarantine is 0.3%. Everyone should monitor themselves for symptoms of COVID-19 and should not be on campus if they have symptoms, except to get a COVID-19 test.

Some individuals who have been in close contact with a person who has tested positive will not see a change to their badge. (This generally happens in cases where contact tracing is not performed by the university.) You should continue to follow campus quarantine guidance, completing at least 10 days of quarantine, returning to campus with a negative test beginning no sooner than day 11.

If you test positive for COVID-19 on campus, you should trust this result and isolate yourself immediately to prevent spreading it to others.  Learn more, including who to call if you have health questions.

The chances that you receive a false positive result are extremely low. Both the nasal swab and saliva-based tests at UW–Madison this spring are PCR tests. PCR is the gold standard diagnostic test for COVID-19.

Do not attempt to get another test at a campus testing site. If you arrive at a campus test site with a red status QR code (which is different than your Badger Badge), staff will permit you to retest only if you have clinical documentation from UHS. Without this documentation, which UHS will grant only rarely, you will not be permitted to retest.

In response to campus feedback, University Health Services offers a process for people with concerns about their test result to request a review. In the Messages section of MyUHS, select “new message” and “COVID-19 Related Messages.” It will take 24 to 48 hours for a provider to review your results.

Though the B.1.1.7 variant of the virus that causes COVID-19 was recently detected for the first time in Dane County, public health experts have operated under the assumption it was already here since it first appeared in other parts of the state. Evidence suggests the B.1.1.7 variant may be more contagious, but the measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 — limiting in-person gatherings; wearing a two-layer, well-fitting face covering, maintaining 6 feet of distance from others; frequent handwashing; isolating yourself if you have symptoms or test positive; quarantining if you’re a close contact — remain the best ways to keep yourself and our community safe. We continue to reinforce the importance of adhering to these practices.

If you are using the Wisconsin Exposure Notification app and you are told to quarantine because of a close contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19, you should follow the public health guidance provided to you in the app at the time you are notified of your exposure. Because this notification does not come from campus contact tracers, your Badger Badge will not change to red/building access denied. You should not come to campus during your quarantine period, except to get a COVID-19 test. You can find UW–Madison’s quarantine information for on-campus and off-campus students and employees, here: https://www.uhs.wisc.edu/medical/covid19-isolation-quarantine/

Campus test sites are open to all students and employees to use to remain in compliance with campus testing requirements. As with all COVID-19 testing in Dane County, testing is also available to students and employees who may be experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or are identified as having close contact with someone positive for COVID-19.

Anyone experiencing symptoms may also access testing through a health care provider or community test site. Students can call University Health Services at 608-265-5600 or schedule an appointment via your MyUHS account at uhs.wisc.edu. Do not attend work or class while you are experiencing symptoms.

Test sites were evaluated for safety and feasibility by a team including University Health Services; Environment, Health and Safety and Facilities Planning and Management and designed to maintain appropriate physical distancing and low density. Each location is cleaned frequently.

We also encourage individuals to wear their face coverings while pooling saliva, in between drooling into the funnel.

Our goal this fall is any student who arrives on campus who has not yet been vaccinated should have an opportunity to receive a vaccine from us, should they choose to.

As of April 5, anyone age 16 and over who lives, works or studies in Wisconsin is eligible for vaccination, according to the Wisconsin Department of Health Services.

Although vaccine supplies are improving, they remain limited – please be patient. Some providers may be able to start vaccinating your eligibility category earlier than others. Everyone will eventually have the opportunity to get vaccinated. You can register with the Wisconsin Department of Health Services to be offered an appointment off campus when one is available.

No, the vaccine is free and any offers to get the vaccine will come from known sources such as your local or tribal health department, health care provider, pharmacy, or a community-based clinic. You should not accept offers for vaccine from an unknown source as these are likely fraudulent.

Some vaccinators may ask you to provide prescription insurance information (such as a prescription card) so they can bill your insurance an administration fee. This will not cost you anything.

Assuming supply is available, you can get vaccinated by the following entities. To maximize your chances of finding vaccine quickly, please check both on and off campus. Find a provider near you. For vaccine-related questions and support with the Wisconsin Department of Health Services vaccine registry, call (844) 684-1064.

The Wisconsin Department of Health Services vaccine registry
Public Health Madison & Dane County and others are offering appointments to people who sign up through the DHS registry. Vaccines are given at the Alliant Energy Center by appointment only. Transportation is available for those who need it — more information about this service is provided when an appointment is made.
University Health Services
UW–Madison employees and students can make appointments through the MyUHS portal.
Your health care provider
Check with your provider about vaccine availability.
Pharmacies
A growing number of pharmacies, including many national retailers, are now offering vaccination. Check the DHS website for a list of participating pharmacies and information on how to make an appointment.
Community-based vaccination clinics
DHS is operating community clinics in several counties. Any eligible Wisconsin resident can be vaccinated at these sites, though keep in mind wherever you get your first dose, you will need to get your second dose at the same location.

You should follow local vaccination policies wherever you are. If you get your first dose and then travel, be sure to bring your vaccination record with you. This will help your vaccine clinic know which product you will need for the second dose and when. When you set up your second dose appointment, be sure to ask if the vaccination clinic will be able to give you the same product that you got for your first dose. Visit VaccineFinder.org to find vaccine providers nationwide.

Check with the vaccine provider about any documentation requirements. If you are unable to provide the required documentation, the provider may ask you to sign a form to attest you are telling the truth about your eligibility.

No, President Biden has stated that all people in the United States, regardless of their immigration status,  can access the vaccine. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security also supports vaccine access for undocumented immigrants. Wisconsin vaccinators may not require proof of residency or state identification to get the vaccine. If you are part of a group that is currently eligible, you can get the vaccine.

You will receive a vaccination card at your appointment. Your vaccination card has information on when and where you received your vaccine as well as other helpful information related to the COVID-19 vaccine such as the type that you received. Keep your card in a safe place. You may also visit the Wisconsin Immunization Registry for an electronic version. When taking pictures or posting selfies about getting your COVID-19 vaccine, do not post photos of your vaccination card online. Doing so could reveal your personal health information.

Employees, graduate students, and undergraduates traveling for in-person research or instructional field activities do not need prior approval for single day trips using ground transportation for either in state or outside of Wisconsin. Ground travel that includes an overnight stay, regardless of destination, as well as all domestic and international air travel, remains restricted. In limited cases, academic deans, vice chancellors and research directors may approve essential overnight and air travel. Prior approval will be required and Essential Travel Exemption Form will need to be submitted. In addition, all current campus health protocols must be followed including wearing facial covering. Additional information on the campus travel policy is located here.

Under current campus travel policy, RSOs traveling outside Dane County or staying overnight regardless of location are required to obtain approval from Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs (or designee). Requests will be facilitated by the Center for Leadership & Involvement and should be submitted at least 14 calendar days in advance via this form. Additional health protocols may be applied to such travel.

No. A person’s vaccination status is private, just like any other medical issue or condition, and employees are not required to share this information with supervisors or managers. There are limited exceptions to this in certain types of jobs (such as health care roles) where sharing vaccine status information is required, but in these limited cases employees are formally notified of this requirement. In general, especially as more people become eligible for vaccination due to health conditions, it is important to avoid asking these types of questions of employees because it could cause an employee to feel compelled to share medical or disability information and this should be avoided. However, supervisors and managers are permitted to ask for Safer Badger app color or designation (green/building access granted).

No. A person’s vaccination status is private, just like any other medical issue or condition, and employees should not be asked to share this information. In general, especially as more people become eligible for vaccination due to health conditions, it is good etiquette to avoid asking people their vaccination status. Anyone who wants to share their vaccine status information with others is free to do so on their own terms, but there is no requirement to share this information with others with whom they work and/or report.

Our campus public health policies, procedures and protocols determine decisions around face covering requirements and physical distancing in the workplace. Supervisors and managers must follow campus public health policies, procedures and protocols and not create their own separate rules for their individual work units. Consult the campus Covid Response website for more information about campus public health protocols.

At this time only employees and students are eligible for on-campus vaccination.

The Wisconsin Department of Health Services offers a registry to assist with scheduling vaccination appointments: https://vaccinate.wi.gov/en-US/.

On April 13, the federal government and the state of Wisconsin instructed vaccine providers to pause administration of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Note: On April 13, 2021, the federal government and the state of Wisconsin instructed vaccine providers to pause administration of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Six people in the U.S. have reported adverse events following vaccination and federal agencies are examining whether these reactions are related to the vaccine. Almost 7 million people have received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in the U.S., so these events are rare, but the pause is being put into place out of an abundance of caution.

Anyone who has received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in the last three weeks and experiences the following symptoms should contact their health provider: severe headache, abdominal pain, leg pain, or shortness of breath. These symptoms have been associated with these rare but severe events You should also use the federal v-safe program to report your symptoms.
The Johnson & Johnson (Janssen) is administered in one dose. While some people will not have any side effects from the vaccine, others may experience symptoms such as headache and mild fever. Find more information about the Johnson & Johnson side effects as well as more FAQs.

Moderna
The Moderna vaccine must be administered in two doses separated by 28 days. While some people will not have any side effects from the vaccine, others may experience symptoms such as headache and mild fever. Find more information about the Moderna side effects as well as more FAQs.

Pfizer
The Pfizer vaccine must be administered in two doses separated by 21 days. While some people will not have any side effects from the vaccine, others may experience symptoms such as headache and mild fever. Find more information about the Pfizer side effects as well as more FAQs.

For AstraZeneca vaccine research trial participants
If you are enrolled in the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine research trial and are offered or are considering Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, you can contact the research team with your questions. The research team will unblind you ahead of time to let you know if you received the actual vaccine or placebo injection. Contact the Office of Clinical Trials at 608-265-6507 or refer to the business card in your trial folder.

Per Dr. Fauci of the National Institutes of Health, there are no known risks to mixing the different brands but there is no data yet available to support this assumption.
It is uncertain if there are advantages to receiving the Pfizer/Moderna vaccines in addition to the AstraZeneca vaccine. While the Pfizer/Moderna vaccines offer enhanced protection against acquiring COVID-19, all of the vaccines are extremely effective against severe disease and hospitalization.
What to expect after getting a COVID-19 vaccine

COVID-19 vaccination will help protect you from getting COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines that require two shots may not protect you until two weeks after your second shot. You may have some side effects (* see below)— which are normal signs that your body is building protection—but they should go away in a few days.

After dose #1

Schedule your second dose appointment in MyUHS.
Choose “Appointments” in the left-side menu. Be sure to select Dose 2.
Enroll in V-Safe, a federal government app-based program that monitors COVID-19 vaccine-related side effects. It sends a daily text reminder and takes less than one minute to enroll.
Take it easy. You will likely have some arm pain (most people do!).
After dose #2

Keep filling out your V-Safe.
Take it easy – again! Some people report more significant symptoms with the second dose.
Practice logging in to the Wisconsin Immunization Registry to verify your COVID-19 immunization status (in case you ever misplace your vaccine card).
After both doses

Continue to wear a face covering
Wash your hands
Maintain physical distance. At least seventy percent of the community needs to be vaccinated before we begin to achieve ‘herd immunity.’ This is still several months away.
Continue being tested regularly
You may experience one or more of these side effects after receiving your first dose, your second dose, or both. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses in order for them to work. Get the second shot even if you have side effects after the first, unless a health care provider tells you not to get a second shot.

* Note that you should call your health care provider if you experience the following symptoms in the three weeks after you receive the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, as these may be signs of a more serious and adverse reaction: severe headache, abdominal pain, leg pain, or shortness of breath.

Typical side effects

Pain or swelling on the arm where you got the shot
Fever
Chills
Tiredness
Headache
Reduce pain or discomfort

Take ibuprofen or acetaminophen
Drink plenty of fluids
Apply a clean, cool wet washcloth to your arm
Use or exercise your arm
When to call a health care provider

In most cases, discomfort from fever or pain is normal. Contact your doctor or healthcare provider if:

The redness or tenderness where you got the shot increases after 24 hours
Side effects are worrying you or do not seem to be going away after a few days
You experience the following symptoms within three weeks of receiving the Johnson & Johnson vaccine: severe headache, abdominal pain, leg pain, or shortness of breath.
Parking Instructions

Parking is available without cost for those coming to be vaccinated by University Health Services (UHS) at the Nicholas Recreation Center (“the Nick”).

Lot 46 (Lake & Johnson Garage) is a gated facility. Pull a ticket to enter the lot and pick up a validation at the vaccination check-in table to cover the cost of parking when you exit the lot. Vaccination site parking is only accessible from Lot 46’s Frances Street entrance. Access is NOT available from the Lake Street entrance. The lot clearance height is 6 feet 8 inches.

Pull a ticket at the Frances Street entrance to enter the lot and proceed up the ramp (west, toward Lake Street) to reach the reserved parking stalls. Only park in designated stalls. Regular parking rules apply if you park in areas other than the designated stalls, and you may be subject to citation and/or payment of any associated fees.

Accessible Parking
ADA parking is available in signed ADA stalls with a valid DOT plate/placard. Please note: Lot 46 is located two city blocks north and a half-block east of the Nicholas Recreation Center. Eleven ADA stalls are available on the first floor after using the Lot 46 Frances Street entrance, six stalls on the east and five stalls on the west near the turn to ascend to Floor 2. However, closer ADA stall options are available in surface lot 48 (120 East Campus Mall) behind Ogg Residence Hall. Two ADA stalls are located on the west side of Lot 48. (Please do not park in the COVID-19 Testing reserved stalls.)

The entrance to The Nick is ADA accessible. Those needing an ADA accessible exit can use the same entrance from which they entered.

Employees should request this information from their primary care provider, even if they were vaccinated at UHS. Students (including student employees) should request this information from their primary care provider or contact the UHS Travel Clinic: 608-265-5600

The app does not utilize GPS or geolocation to track your location. During the setup phase of the app, users will self-select if they wish to use the low energy Bluetooth proximity notification feature. Users can turn this feature off at any time. Location services are only used for the low energy Bluetooth proximity notification feature of Safer Badgers, to tell you when you’ve been in proximity to someone who has tested positive. All data is anonymous, meaning as a COVID-19 positive individual, you will not know who is receiving proximity notifications, and as a receiver of a proximity notification you will not know who the notification came from.

UW–Madison uses industry best practices in data security to minimize risks to users’ personal data such as data loss, misuse, or unauthorized access, disclosure, or alteration. All user data is protected against unauthorized access or distribution. Users’ personally identifiable information (PII) will never be shared with third parties without user permission. Users can delete all PII and all anonymous data from our servers at any time by removing the Safer Badgers app.

There are different types of data stored and transmitted from the Safer Badgers app.

Personal identifiers, such as NetID, are used to create user accounts on the Safer Badgers App. This personal information is shared with UW–Madison’s Division of Information Technology (DoIT) and stored on users’ phones as well as on account servers.
COVID-19 test results where users retrieve those results through the Safer Badgers app are stored on their phones.
Anonymous Bluetooth tokens are used as proximity records in the Exposure Notification feature. These tokens are stored on the phone for 14 days and then automatically deleted. When a user has a positive COVID-19 test result (and if they have opted-in to the Exposure Notification feature), 14 days’ worth of their Bluetooth tokens are uploaded to a secure database server and then downloaded by the other phones using the Safer Badgers app. Each app then checks for matches against the token history saved on their phone. The tokens expire and are deleted automatically after 14 days, both from the phones and from the database server. The tokens are not saved anywhere else. Note that these randomly generated tokens are de-identified and are not associated with a particular phone or individual. The Safer Badgers app does not access, track, or use GPS location information for any purpose.

As we had hoped, the expanded testing we are doing this semester, together with the rollout of vaccination on campus, is allowing us to re-evaluate some of our policies with the goal of offering students greater use of campus facilities and more opportunities to interact. For example, a change to the campus events policy allows more people to gather in-person than at the beginning of the semester.

However, other changes, such as switching a course section’s mode of instruction from remote to in-person, are not feasible at this point in the semester, given that a change in modality would disadvantage those students who are attending remotely and are not in the Madison-area. We will continue to review what may be possible, paying close attention to positivity rates on campus and, importantly, to our progress in vaccinating members of our campus community.

The availability of vaccinations for employees and students on campus continues to depend upon vaccine supplies, as well as on the eligibility guidelines provided by the state and federal governments. Given that much of the campus population waits on vaccine eligibility and availability, masking, physical distancing and limits on gatherings remain critically important.

When users of Safer Badgers receive their COVID-19 test results through the mobile app or accompanying website, the results are transmitted from the health care provider in charge of the tests. (On the UW–Madison campus that provider is University Health Services). The notification is encrypted in transit and decrypted on the user’s phone. The test result is also saved in an encrypted form in our secure database in case users need to access their data from a new device or the accompanying website. No other party but the user can decrypt the test result sent in the notification. The Safer Badgers app will not share an individual’s COVID-19 test results information with anyone.

Laboratories that conduct COVID-19 tests are required by law to submit all test results to the Wisconsin Department of Health Services, which is managing the response to the epidemic. Summary statistics of testing data are shared with the public on a dashboard. These statistics are used to manage the COVID-19 pandemic on campus and may be used for research in the future.

No. The Safer Badgers app and accompanying website will be used only for the following functions:

Connecting with UW–Madison University Health Services to receive test results and care recommendations.
Self-reporting of symptoms.
Opt-in exposure notification.
Verification of access to campus buildings through the Badger Badge.
Recommended steps for improving and maintaining the user’s health.
Simplified up-to-date public health guidelines.
The Safer Badgers app does not report geolocation, so it cannot report or track a user’s whereabouts, and there are no plans to add geolocation tracking.

If you opt-in to use the exposure notification feature of the app, you need to turn on location services in order to activate your device’s Bluetooth low-energy technology. Even if you turn on location services, the app does not access your location or collect or store any location data.

The Safer Badgers app will not retain PII (personally identifiable information) for long-term study. The exposure notification data expires automatically after 14 days and is not saved anywhere. De-identified non-PII information such as the following may be archived and made available for public health or research purposes in the future:

We recognize this requires some additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible. The app will help you keep track of your compliance. We anticipate having testing available 7 days a week at locations across campus, including availability in the early morning and in the evening. We will continue policies that encourage flexible work arrangements and remote participation options for campus meetings wherever possible.

We recognize this requires some additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible. The app will help you keep track of your compliance. We anticipate having testing available 7 days a week at locations across campus, including in the early morning and in the evening. We will continue policies that encourage flexible work arrangements and remote participation options for campus meetings wherever possible.

We recognize this requires some additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible. The app will help you keep track of your compliance. We anticipate having testing available 7 days a week at locations across campus, including in the early morning and in the evening.

The app will help you qualify for incentives to thank you for participating in the new testing program and help you avoid any negative consequences triggered by being out of compliance. We will continue policies that encourage flexible work arrangements and remote participation options for campus meetings wherever possible.

No. Both tests are PCR-based and provide accurate diagnostic results.

We recognize this requires some additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible. The app will help you keep track of your compliance. We anticipate having testing available 7 days a week at locations across campus, including in the early morning and in the evening.

The app will help you qualify for incentives to thank you for participating in the new testing program and help you avoid any negative consequences triggered by being out of compliance. We will continue policies that encourage flexible work arrangements and remote participation options for campus meetings wherever possible.

Only positive PCR-based COVID-19 test results from off campus will be accepted for tracking within the Safer Badgers app. Negative off-campus tests will not be accepted.

If you have a positive PCR test result off campus, you should submit it via the app and it will be verified by a team of medical professionals at UHS. To be verified, off-campus results should include your name, date of birth, collection date and test
type. A letter from a physician or county public health may also be acceptable. Please allow UHS staff time to verify your results after you upload.

If it has been 10 days or less since your verified positive PCR test, your Badger Badge status will change to “building access denied” until your isolation period ends. If your verified positive test was from more than 10 days prior to the date of submission, your Badger Badge will reflect “building access granted” and remain in that status for a duration of 90 days from the date of your positive test. After 90 days, you will be required to participate in regular on-campus testing.

State law empowers the university to protect the health and safety of members of the university community. Board of Regent policies hold the chancellor responsible for making the health and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors an integral part of UW–Madison’s operations. The chancellor is authorized to establish policies and procedures to promote a safe, secure and healthy environment. By virtue of their association with the university, students, employees and visitors must comply with the applicable policies and procedures.

Your badge will continue to indicate “building access granted” (with a green checkmark) as long as you:

Have a negative test on file in the timeframe specified for your community population (undergraduate student, graduate/professional student, faculty/staff)
Have not had a positive test on file within the last 10 days
Are not required to be in isolation or quarantine
Have not self-reported symptoms of COVID-19

No. The Badger Badge indicates whether someone is up-to-date with campus testing requirements and meets the other criteria necessary to access campus buildings. The Badger Badge does not “shut off” Wiscard access if someone is out of compliance.

No, members of the public are not required to test before coming to campus. However, visitors who have business on campus (e.g. guest lecturers, research collaborators, research participants, private industry partners) will need to be escorted into any building or facility by the person with whom the visitor has business (or their designee). The person hosting the visitor is responsible for ensuring the visitor follows all campus health protocols, including wearing a face covering and physically distancing.

Yes, beginning Jan. 25, anyone working on campus or using campus facilities will be required to test regularly. At a minimum, any time you come to campus for any reason, you will need to have tested negative within the previous eight days. In order to access campus facilities, you must also meet the following criteria:

You have not had a positive test on file within the last 10 days
You are not required to be in isolation or quarantine
You have not self-reported any symptoms for COVID-19

No, Safer Badgers exposure notification is separate from the WI Exposure Notification app and is restricted to those using the UW–Madison Safer Badgers testing program. If you wish, we encourage you to use both to ensure the broadest coverage.

Both apps are anonymous and protect the privacy of the users. The apps do not track location or location history.

The Safer Badgers app cannot be tailored to every individual circumstance. You should always follow the instructions provided to you by medical or public health professionals, including UHS staff and contact tracers. If you have additional questions, contact UHS.

Testing is a work obligation for both hourly and salaried employees. If an employee needs to make a trip to campus to test in order to maintain building access for work purposes, they may do so during their normal work hours. Employees shall be granted a reasonable amount of time during their normal work hours to complete required COVID-19 testing, including reasonable travel time. Hourly employees must test during their normal work hours. Salaried employees may test either during their normal work hours or at other times, but they will not receive any additional compensation (outside of their standard compensation package) for their time spent getting tested, regardless of when they do so. For more information, contact your HR representative.

Testing is a work obligation for both hourly and salaried employees. If an employee needs to make a trip to campus to test in order to maintain building access for work purposes, they may do so during their normal work hours. Employees shall be granted a reasonable amount of time during their normal work hours to complete required COVID-19 testing, including reasonable travel time. Hourly employees must test during their normal work hours. Salaried employees may test either during their normal work hours or at other times, but they will not receive any additional compensation (outside of their standard compensation package) for their time spent getting tested, regardless of when they do so For more information, contact your HR representative.

A negative test tells you only that you are not likely infected with the virus that causes COVID-19 at the time your sample was collected. To reduce the chances that you unknowingly spread the virus, you should continue to wear a face covering, even if you receive a negative test result. Additionally, wearing a face covering helps protect you from exposure to the virus.

Yes, the Badger Pledge, which covers the university’s COVID-19-related health and safety behavior expectations for students, will be in effect for the spring semester.

Yes, if you receive a positive test result, you should leave class or work immediately and follow the isolation instructions provided to you by University Health Services. If you are awaiting a test result and believe you may have COVID-19 because you have symptoms or are a close contact of someone with COVID-19, such as a roommate, you should quarantine at home until you receive your test results. If you develop symptoms while you are on campus, you should go get tested or contact UHS or your health provider and isolate yourself immediately.

Most of your classes may be online, but UW–Madison’s campus is still open. You can still get together with friends (at a safe distance, of course), grab a bite to eat, or find a quiet place to study. Discover events through the Wisconsin Union or work out with Rec Well.

Explore events through the Wisconsin Union and student organizations to see what campus has to offer. University Housing will continue to offer virtual events for its residents.

Check out the Campus Operations page of our COVID-19 Response website for resources and facilities that are available to students for spring semester and keep reading The Weekly e-newsletter to stay updated on what’s happening around campus.

The campus expectation is that undergraduates test every 72 hours if they are coming to campus, regardless of where they live. Exceptions are rare but requests will be reviewed. Please submit a COVID-19 Testing Exemption form.

No, you do not need to test. You are considered a visitor for purposes of access to campus buildings. Visitors who have business on campus (e.g., guest lecturers, research collaborators, research participants, private industry partners) will need to be escorted into any building or facility by the person with whom the visitor has business (or their designee). The person hosting the visitor is responsible for ensuring the visitor follows all campus health protocols, including wearing a face covering and physically distancing.

There will be testing sites across campus to ensure people have access close to where they work, live or have class.

Testing will be available seven days per week, with early morning and late evening hours at some sites.

Regardless of whether our undergraduate students have schedules that include in-person instruction, they still interact with each other as a community. Through our contact tracing process in the fall, we found no evidence of classroom transmission, but congregate living, social gatherings and shared meals contributed to spread among our off-campus student population. Beyond this, we know that many students who contracted COVID-19 were asymptomatic. We believe the best way to ensure the health of our full campus community is to have a comprehensive testing program that can quickly identify all members of campus who contract COVID-19 so they can isolate themselves and limit virus spread. We recognize that this will take a contribution of time and effort among our students to comply with the testing protocols, but we hope students will participate in an effort to avoid disruptions to academic and campus operations that were necessary this fall. We also hope to reduce community transmission to support the health of Madison and our broader student population.

Monitored buildings will have all the non-monitored entries locked with signs indicating the direction to the monitored entry. Monitored entries will be staffed by Badger Wellness Ambassadors wearing high visibility vests; they will be prominently located inside the monitored entries. People seeking building access may display their Badger Badge at a safe distance.

People will be free to enter unmonitored entrances using the honor system.

Badger Wellness Ambassadors will attempt to implement their de-escalation training and, if needed, seek assistance.

Students seeking building access to attend classes are responsible for giving themselves enough time to verify their building access. The monitoring program is not considered an acceptable excuse for lateness.

In monitored buildings, those who fall into one of these categories who have clearly identified uniforms will be able to enter without using the Badger Badge. They can be given access permissions for the building via an alternate entry point if the facility manager or unit head, or other person designated by the unit head, ensures they are wearing a face covering and properly physically distancing.
Those without uniforms will need to follow our general visitor policy.

As a general policy, those not affiliated with the university are not allowed in institutional facilities unless scheduled or invited by an employee.

Additionally, we are currently unable to provide access inside campus buildings for prospective or admitted students and are encouraging them to visit campus virtually. As soon as it is safe to do so, we will resume campus tours and will share updates via email and on our website.

Invited visitors with business on campus (e.g., guest lecturers, research collaborators, research participants,private industry partners) must be escorted into the building by an already verified building employee. Visitors must also comply with established public health protocols, including wearing a face covering and physically distancing.

See separate policy pertaining to uniformed contractors, vendors, law enforcement, emergency responders, etc.

No. Only the Safer Badgers app or website can provide verification for building access, using the Badger Badge.

This is a federal government requirement that applies to UW–Madison because the university receives federal funding under the CARES Act. The categories are provided by the federal government. We don’t have the capability to allow the selection of more than one category.

Test sites were evaluated for safety and feasibility by a team including University Health Services; Environment, Health and Safety; and Facilities Planning and Management, and designed to maintain appropriate physical distancing and low density. Each location is cleaned frequently. When performed correctly, submitting a saliva sample should not result in creation of aerosols. Sample submission involves drooling into a funnel fitted over a collection tube, so there should be no spitting, forceful throat clearing or other expulsive actions. We also encourage individuals to wear their face coverings while pooling saliva, in between drooling into the funnel. We ask for patience as people adapt to the new approach.

Yes, all UW–Madison employees must be in compliance with campus testing requirements in order to access campus buildings. This means they must have a negative test on file within the previous eight days of their visit to campus.

This applies to UW–Madison employees with dual employment at UW Health who also need to access buildings on campus, including to attend meetings, use campus recreation centers, visit the unions, etc. The only exception is for employees who are simply passing straight through Health Sciences Learning Center between the hospital and the parking garage, bike racks or bus stops.

UW Health employees who are not dual appointees do not need to test. If they need to visit campus, they should follow the campus visitor policy.

Dual employees should download the Safer Badgers app to schedule their tests, manage their results, and access their badge to ensure they can gain access to campus buildings. Employees who do not come to UW–Madison buildings will not need to get tested, though they may want to consider being prepared in case they should need to visit campus on short notice.

At this time, the Safer Badgers app will not be used to manage access to residence halls. However, residents who do not stay current with required testing will receive follow-up from Residence Life staff and can face disciplinary action, including removal from Housing. Residents who test positive for COVID-19 or have been exposed will still need to go to isolation or quarantine spaces until they are cleared to return. Most Housing dining markets will be monitored for access through the app.

Participants in UWSISP can continue to test through this program and satisfy campus testing requirements this spring.

To do so, you will need to create a Safer Badgers account through the Safer Badgers app. The Safer Badgers app should reflect your UWSISP status. Please note that any negative test results will not appear in the Safer Badgers app.

In order for you to enter campus buildings, your Badger Badge will need to indicate “building access granted” (with a green checkmark).  The badge does not share any personal health information. Your badge will continue to indicate “building access granted” as long as you test accordingly in this study and meet other requirements, such as not being in quarantine following potential exposure to COVID-19.

If you miss a scheduled  test or unenroll from this study, you will be enrolled in standard campus saliva-based testing program. You would then need to be tested at least every eight days to retain access to campus buildings.

Neither the campus nor Public Health Madison Dane County (PHMDC) has the capacity to provide quarantine/isolation spaces for students who are not living in University Housing.
We recommend that these students speak with their roommates to develop, and agree on, how they will handle the situation if a roommate develops symptoms and/or has a positive COVID test. We recommend starting with guidance from PHMDC. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also offers information for people living in close quarters and recommendations for cleaning shared spaces.
For graduate students living in University Apartments and who already have a lease, campus can work with residents if they need space.
Our off-campus students will have full access to University Health Services, and we will work with them, in cooperation with the local public health department, to conduct contact tracing.

“Contact tracing” is a public health procedure used to identify people who may have come into contact with an infected person. Public health workers who conduct contact tracing interview known infected individuals, attempt to identify all recent contacts of the infected individual, and then follow up with those contacts by recommending testing, quarantine, treatment or other measures.

UW–Madison University Health Services manages contact tracing for those individuals who test positive for COVID-19 at on-campus testing locations. UHS works closely with the contact tracers at Public Health Madison and Dane County (PHMDC). PHMDC contact tracers can be used to supplement university contact tracing capacity in surge situations.

“Exposure notification” lets people know if they were in the vicinity of someone who was later found to be infected. The Safer Badgers app provides exposure notification for those users who enable this feature. If users enable exposure notification, their phones store Bluetooth-emitted tokens when they are in sufficient proximity to other phones. If users of the app later find out they are infected, 14 days of their Bluetooth tokens are uploaded to a secure database server and then downloaded by other phones. Then those phones look for matches with the tokens they have saved. Phones that find matches notify their users that they might have been exposed. Exposure notifications are generated on each user’s phone, and the notification is displayed only on the user’s phone. Individual exposure notifications are not reported to any other party. Summary statistics about exposure notifications are reported to University Health Services. The Safer Badgers app never tracks geolocation (i.e., GPS, or Global Positioning System).

Privacy testing stations are available only as an accommodation at Union South or Ogg Residence Hall. Employees needing a private testing station due to disability should work with their Divisional Disability Representative, and students should contact the McBurney Disability Resource Center.

Employees needing a religious-based accommodation should contact Workforce Relations, and students should contact the Dean of Students Office.

No, the Safer Badgers Bluetooth exposure notification feature does not interact with the Badger Badge screen or affect building access. The notification functionality in the app will include a single recommendation to get a COVID-19 test ASAP.

Beginning Feb. 10, to access campus buildings, you will need to have tested negative within the previous 8 days. (Certain employees will be asked to test more often, given their role on campus. If you are affected, you will be notified by your supervisor.)

It is recommended that you test weekly to ensure you can report to campus at short notice.

In order to access campus facilities, you must also meet the following criteria:

You have not had a positive test on file within the last 10 days
You are not required to be in isolation or quarantine
You have not self-reported symptoms of COVID-19
If you are called to respond to a situation but your Badger Badge is indicating “building access denied” (with a red X),  you should reach out to a supervisor or colleague to identify someone whose badge is “building access granted” (with a green checkmark) who can respond.

We recognize these new measures require additional effort and are working to make compliance as easy as possible. The Safer Badgers app will remind students about the need to test; however, in rare cases, additional measures may be needed to ensure compliance. Our progressive approach first employs administrative consequences — early warnings that will have no lasting impact on a student’s record. Our response builds only if more tests are missed or a student displays a pattern of missing tests. Learn more about student conduct and testing compliance.

You are exempt from engaging in testing for 90 days after a positive test. After the 90-day period ends, you must follow campus testing procedures.

If you were tested off campus before the spring semester, you must submit proof of a positive PCR test, including the lab result and the result interpretation, via the Safer Badgers app. To be verified, off-campus results should include your name, date of birth, collection date and test type. A letter from a physician or county public health may also be acceptable. The test should be a diagnostic, PCR-based test. 

Your Badger Badge will remain as “building access denied” (with a red X) until your result has been reviewed by UHS (off-campus results) or imported into the app (on-campus results).

The Apple and Android versions of the app are available at saferbadgers.wisc.edu. A website version will also be available soon.

Individuals with a badge indicating “building access denied” (with a red X) will be provided with instructions within the Safer Badgers app on how to proceed. If they have additional questions, they can call the UW–Madison COVID-19 Assistance Line at 608-262-7777.

The app was developed by the University of Illinois and has been used there since August. We are partnering with them and a company called Rokmetro that was created to help implement the app at other higher ed institutions.

Yes. Buildings monitored by Badger Wellness Ambassadors will have limited open entrances. Signs will direct individuals to the nearest open entrance.

Prior positive on-campus test results are being imported into the Safer Badgers app and will be viewable by Jan. 25. If you have a prior positive test from off campus, you can upload it via the Safer Badgers app.
